everybody welcome to impact theory
you're here because you believe that
human potential is nearly limitless but
you know that having potential is not
the same as actually doing something
with it so our goal with the show and
company quite frankly is to introduce
you to the people and ideas that will
help you wring every drop of potential
out of yourself all right today's guest
is driven and I mean really driven
during a storied 15 year career in the
NFL he set the record for most sacks in
a single season won a Super Bowl ring
and through his do-or-die play left such
an enduring mark on the sport that he
was inducted into the Hall of Fame but
his success in football honestly was
just the beginning he's done even more
off the field than he did on and to
understand the dizzying heights that
he's climbed to since retiring you need
only understand his worldview in his
words there's a difference between
improbable and impossible realizing that
that idea is running through his head
makes it pretty easy to understand how
he's managed to get a full ride
scholarship to play football in college
even though he grew up in Germany and
didn't play until his senior year in
high school and he did it by working his
ass off literally and his legendary work
ethic makes it clear that his success is
a story of hard work and not just
natural talent not afraid to reinvent
himself start at the bottom Klaus way to
the top in a totally new field post
football he turned his attention to
hosting for TV not only did he become a
full-time fixture on Fox Sports but he
also landed the job of co-host of live
with Kelly and Michael from there he
reinvented himself again and joined Good
Morning America one of the most coveted
roles and morning television now I've
had the distinct pleasure of getting to
know him off camera over the last year
so and I can tell you that this dude is
for real ten minutes in his presence and
it becomes abundantly clear how he's
managed to master multiple arenas his
jaw-dropping level of success as an
athlete host and entrepreneur may be
improbable but he's truly proven that
impossible only exists in the mind
please help me in welcoming the New York
Times
selling author yes he's done that to of
wake up happy the dream big win big
guide to transforming your life the
hilarious and very hard-hitting Michael
Strahan oh yeah have you been oh I've
been great busy we're good really you a
little bit how often do you go back and
forth coast-to-coast
every weekend from September through
basically fibular to the Superbowl every
time I get on a plane and I have to fly
like two and a half hours and a 30
minutes delay and I'm all paired up I
think Strahan is doing this literally
every weekend that's what it's good for
me because to be honest with you it's
the most quiet peaceful six hours coming
this way my week right so if I want to
be on the phone if I want to do emails
if I want to you know do that I can but
if not for want to take a nap which is
mostly what I do then I can do that so
that's why I don't complain too because
my father worked really hard and if my
biggest complaint is being on an
airplane and sleeping right then I got a
problem if I'm complaining about that so
I I keep everything in check
by thinking back to how hard and how
realistic life is and how you know I've
been very fortunate I don't take it for
granted yeah you're super thoughtful
like you really think about [__] like
pretty deeply I mean you go into you go
into some depth about like the
neurochemical Cascades and how to
manipulate them and life philosophies
and very specifically like not just
because you've got this concept from
your dad I believe of it's not if it's
when yeah which okay most people leave
it at the platitude but you went a lot
deeper than that what does like walk us
through that philosophy how do you
bridge the gap from if to when I think I
actually got that from my dad without
even knowing I don't know if he knew
what he was doing
yeah well my dad I think it it is he's
just a hard-driving person he grew up
with nothing in the back worth of Texas
and we're gate Texas I don't even know
if the town
just anymore and he decided to leave and
he went into the army and just enlisted
and he was the soldier for 12 years and
he realized I can't be what I want to be
it can't be an officer I can't really
advance without an education he got out
of the army after 12 years had five kids
and me on the way with the Prairie View
University and when it's very RTC
program they called him old man you
can't do this you can't do that and he
graduated magna [__] laude of the other
ROTC class and so I can't tell him what
I can't do because he's been in a lot
tougher situations and he's done it and
I just remember the kid but being
through working out and doing all those
things with him because they were the I
started to work out when I was 13 and a
little chunky and my brothers called me
Bob which is it of course you read that
of the book Bob Bob which meant booty on
back and they would saying you can grab
your wallet over your shoulder you don't
have to reach behind you if it hurt me
man I'm 13 years old I was crushed I'm
the youngest of six you know in the in
the youngest of four boys and I just
bought the Jane Fonda workout book I
started doing the you know the the leg
lifts and the butt kicks my dad saw that
and he said hey we can go to the gym and
he would you read muscle and fitness
magazines and all these workout
magazines and he would write out
programs and we'd go to the gym you have
to write how many reps and how much
weight and he kept meticulous log of
things and I didn't always want to be
there
sure but he could tell and I don't know
what it was when you tell at 13 14 15
year old kid that we did it until I went
off there College was hanging there to
pay off one day now he's telling this to
me and I'm living in Germany right not
like I'm in the States and I play
football it's like oh next year you're
gonna have a great football season and
then you can get a scholarship it was
just hang in there son it'll pay off one
day right and years later he woke up and
said hey I think you're good enough to
play football I think you can get a
football scholarship is what's weird
it's not like you're playing every day
and you know really around it you know I
watch
play I didn't really know all the
nuances or any of the techniques or
anything about the game and he just said
hey you can do it you're gonna go to
Houston you're gonna stay with your
uncle you're gonna get a football
scholarship and being I guess naive I
said okay no--but okay fine
on the plane I go jump see my uncle
David my uncle for five months play one
year football high school at Westbury
high school and used it got one
scholarship to Texas Southern University
didn't care where it was my mission was
accomplished and I went back to Germany
that December I graduated high school
over there and my dad never told me if
he never doubted me said you're gonna do
this you can do that from a kid until we
won the Superbowl until you know all
these things that are happening now he's
never doubted me and I don't know if it
was by design I don't know if he sent me
to Houston because he just was too cheap
to pay for college it worked out in my
mentality and now I have adopted that
wouldn't for myself for my my kids it's
not if you really want something bad
enough right it's not gonna be easy and
you can see where you want to go but
there are so many things you're gonna
have to go through the get there but
truly if you focus and know where you
want to end up you'll be there it may
not be at that time you want was just
now kind of immediate for most people
but you'll eventually get there at your
time when you're supposed to yeah that
it's such a powerful belief and you talk
a lot about that in the book and and so
I judge books in a very critical fashion
which is either the information is
usable or it's not and then if it's
usable if I do it will it work or not
your book is both usable meaning there's
clear very action-oriented steps it's
not just like an autobiography it's like
hey do this and this is what I did if
people do what you say in the book it
will actually work like it's really
incredible advice and it has fantastic
backing in your understanding of the
brain and all of that it's so you make
decisions it's up to you you know you
make choices in your life you program
your mind need to be happy or not that's
a choice that you make it's not
something that somebody else makes for
you is not I'm not even your situation
no matter what the situation
you truly do make the choice to be happy
in that situation or not and we also
have the ability to change a situation
at night we're not happy with talk a
little bit about that because if for
anybody that doesn't know the sort of
legendary beef that you had with the
final coach at the Giants it's such a
powerful and what I'm talking about
specifically is is that you've switched
right so you come in hot you guys always
hated me butting heads
yeah then in the end you said that if
you were gonna go back he's the only one
that you'd go back and play for yeah I
absolutely hated Tom Coughlin and not
long ago I was at the Giants Monday
night game to induct him into the Ring
of Honor which was like amazing for me
because this is a guy I went to my first
meeting with him and I'd been in the NFL
for 11 12 years my first meeting with
the guy and I felt as if he was
dismissive and as if I hadn't
accomplished anything and pretty much
listened to me and you can do something
with your life kid I was thinking okay
kind of done some things already but I
felt disrespected it's slided and I I
went home and I said I'm playing one
year with this guy cover half to now
right late but I'm not going to play
after this one I can't stay here with
this guy I won't do it he already had a
bad reputation around the league it's
been a really tough coach and he was
give your socks weren't pulled up high
enough you get a fine if you had blue
sleeves on instead of gray sleeves that
day you get a fine if you're not five
minutes early to a meeting
you get fine I might dude if the
meetings at 7:55 just tell me that don't
tell me eight and I get there 757 and
I'm late
it was just we were butting heads and
not just with me but with all the
players but being that I was a senior
leader they would come to me and I would
talk to him hey coach and he would just
cry here yeah I hear you I hear you and
it came to a head after he fined me for
being three minutes early to a meeting
we had a heated discussion to the point
where he was like you know what it is
what it is method coach
we just had just discussion well you
shouldn't cut it so close I said coach
I'm not cutting it close he does well
next time you're lucky I could have find
you more
and when he said that it just that's
when the football player side went and
and I heard you say [__] so I'm gonna
curse I'll tell you what I said to him
and I said okay that's fine you'll find
me ain't about the money anyway it's
about the principle but you know what
[__] it [__] it you want to find me I'll
come in here when I want to that if I'm
gonna be late you're gonna find my
mother so when I want so I would do some
errand then I'm coming to this [__]
when I want to he looked at me like and
I was surprised because that was kind of
like you know the whole different side
of they usually on the field and he said
you can't talk to me like that and I say
yes I can said no you can't I said yes I
can and you know why because you don't
respect me I can't respect you and I
come to you every day with all the
problems of the players and what the
guys are feeling and you always say to
me I hear you I hear you I said when you
say that you're just dismissing me and
you think I don't realize that you're
dismissing me but you're losing this
team do you hear that and I walked away
from him and ever since that day our
relationship has been like that it's as
if we two dogs circling around see who's
gonna jump on each other and we finally
got into a scrum but we came out of it
with an understanding that we both
wanted the same thing and that was to
win once we really deep looked at it
deeply we both wanted to win and I was
so happy to see him change to the point
where it made me change and realize that
if you both have the same objectives you
just have to find a way to make that
work to get there he loosened up his
stance with the players we loosen up our
stands with his rules as far as we were
more attentive to them and guys felt
like we weren't fighting against the
rules we were fighting the opponent on
the field where before we were fighting
his rules instead of her focusing on who
we were playing that week and he became
a coach who would come in and tell jokes
and give you a hug and tell you he loved
you and before he was not that guy yeah
and I've heard you tell stories about it
was sort of the inside of seeing him
with other kids
Blair's kids his own grandkids water
what the hell Kurt Warner on the day off
you know the quarterbacks they going
the game plan and Kurt Warner our
quarterback at the time went in to pick
up his game plan with his kids he goes
into the quarterback off coach's office
and when he comes out coach Carr flew on
the floor with his kids outside the
office plan and it's like why don't we
as players see that compassion hmm that
side of you because it's definitely
there we see what your grandkids
sometimes but it was amazing to see him
do it and he learned how to transfer
that over to us as adults and we had an
intern learn how to you know give him
everything because either coach the
toughest thing and thing I loved about
playing and the one thing I loved about
work and working with a lot of people in
the leadership aspect it is the
opportunity to get so many people to
believe in one thing that makes
everybody better so that everybody wins
and in order to do that you made you
have to make everybody have value and
feel valuable I don't care for somebody
was sweeping the floor or the president
of company everybody needs to be treated
like a human being with value and if
they are they will do anything for you
and once he got that down guys would do
anything for him and I was one of those
guys that once I was into that matrix
anything he needed it would get done and
all the way down to just my belief in us
winning a Super Bowl and watching all
that happen and and just the way that we
did it and now if I had to go back and
plate seriously I wouldn't I wouldn't
play for any other coach if he wanted me
to play for him I would play for him
only it's interesting that you tie it to
compassion so one of the the most
fascinating things about you off camera
which dear God if you ever get a chance
to spend time with Mike there and take
out I'm around just let me know
hit him up on that let me tell you right
now so Joe Glaser summed you up really
well when he was doing the Hall of Fame
induction spot then he said Strahan has
a switch and he is one guy off the field
and he's another guy when he comes out
the tunnel and when he flips that switch
he's there to stomp you stomp you out
yes so hanging out with you you're so
warm and so
it is crazy the bear hugs the just
kindness the jealousy bear it it but
here's the thing it's one thing to like
people when you're on camera and
everyone is gonna distrust that it's
another when you're just you really are
like that and it's from a leadership
perspective is such a beautiful thing to
open yourself up to that I love your
ritual of going around before the game
and touching everybody yeah and I
actually really want to start doing that
with the team here like we've got such a
group of diehard people and it had like
in doing so the whole point to me of the
people that I bring on the show is to
bring people the more I research them
the more I get to know who they are that
I'll find these little nuances that I
can bring into my own life and when I
pictured you going around to everybody
and and saying I'm accountable to you
right I'm accountable to you and when I
go out on that field I'm going to hold
us up I'm going to do what we've all
agreed that we're here to accomplish and
I thought oh my god like that's so
powerful and to have built that trust
and rapport with them ahead of time
where they feel connected to you and
then you say hey I'm here to serve you
right like we're all gonna do this
together that's super it's bigger than
if bigger they was it was always bigger
than me and I had success on a football
field singular success you know I've
been Defensive Player of the Year a few
times and it's like I can't celebrate
this our team at lewdly record it's like
there's no I never found much joy in
something that was a singular success
the best time does anyone ever asked me
what is the best thing from your career
it's Super Bowl it's everybody being
able to celebrate the accomplishment of
us as a team and not me as an individual
and there is definitely a switch you
have to have and to me I do love people
and and it's natural for me to be nice
to people I don't know any other way I
don't know why you wouldn't be but it's
also as work for me because there and
anything I do I have to be fake I don't
have to be something I'm not
I don't have to be nice to you here and
then leave and you see me later on
because I've been around a lot of people
like that and it's as if they're a
different person like this guy right
never wanted to be that I always wanted
to be myself the entire time which works
great for me
I love psychology of things mmm that's
why I think I love a team I love getting
people on the same page in the
psychology of from football to me is in
the medium of football the simple things
you get the game program every week and
it's the same picture throughout the
whole year of the guys but I had a
ritual I would look at the program I
would look at everybody on my team
saying guys and then I would look at the
other teams guys and when you're a young
player you get intimidated by faces and
some guy sitting there looking like did
they get like old man that guy's a
killer
oh I don't look scared but as I got
older I said it's like psychologically
if somebody looks like that then they're
you know then okay but how much more
frame will you be if somebody you know
with a kill and they just smile so in my
program figured I'd be like this it
looked like a glamorous shot it looked
like I went to the mall it was like this
is a guy his must be crazy to be
smelling these photos like this and and
so like I would just do little girl
silly things like that with the media I
didn't talk every day
I said I'll talk one day a week I talked
to Thursday's and I did it because if
you talk all the time it's like going to
the same restaurant it's not special and
especially in the media of New York when
there are so many different people and
so many outlets and everybody just
there's so much content you need yours
to stand out so if you want to talk to
me and you only give me one day a week I
guarantee when I talk to you you're
gonna cherish that and you're gonna use
that and I would mix it up on the media
as well as they would give me a hard
time I give them a hard time I'll take
one question today I'm not a bad mood
but I just that like that give me one
question ask me one answered they ask me
a second I see in here what I said I
said one I'm sorry I gotta go all right
another day that I sit there and I watch
at your wife's doing you know
everything's good and I would just mix
them up keep them off there off off
balance a little bit and I just enjoyed
the psychological battle of football I
enjoyed the psychological battle of the
media and and in a lot of ways now
it's not quite the same but I feel like
that aspect of psychologically getting
everybody on the same page to be
successful yeah there's some pretty
incredible footage of you getting well
let's talk psychological warfare and
then getting everybody on the same page
so one the trash-talking that you did
when you would tackle people was
absolutely fantastic welcome home baby
yeah there were some great ones but then
hey what you did in the Super Bowl
was really really crazy and I want to
hear what was the the psychological
principle at work so you the team is
losing but you gather everybody on the
sidelines and you say you're losing at
the moment I think it was 10 to 14 yeah
to the undefeated champions coming into
this game and you say with like very
little time left guys
were one drive away we're gonna win 17
to 14 that's going to be the final score
if you believe it it's gonna happen yeah
gene stray had my dad that's crazy it
was it was weird because by the way that
was the end score that was the in score
a gifted undefeated team 18 and OH at
that point and had beaten us early in
the season and I I just my dad that that
week in Phoenix he said you know what
you guys have already won the game and I
was like I think old man's losing it
what's he talking about you guys have
already won the game now you just have
to go do the formality but trust me
you've already won the game and I'm
thinking have you seen the Patriots have
you seen their record they said get the
artist Tom Brady and Randy Moss don't
you say out like all you phenomenal Hall
of Fame players over there and we got to
the point in that game where there are
just several things that come to mind
Bill Belichick is brilliant kind of
probably best coach ever to coach
professional football and we had a
fourth down they had to punt he rushes
the punt team out there they run a punt
we didn't get all our guys off the field
in time so it gives them a first down in
our territory and field goal position
and everything else and Tom Coughlin is
losing it
you know he's beat ready screaming on
the sidelines and I I just had such a
peace during that game
so he tells this story all the time he
said you reached over when you grabbed
me by my shoulders before you ran out on
the field and you smiled as a coach
don't worry we got it and we go out I
actually got a sack that's a sack I got
on that drive move them out of field
goal position they didn't score any
points and that was just like the
peacefulness of the game so when we came
to that point in the fourth quarter
where they scored and they went at 1410
it was like you know what if dad said
we're gonna win dammit we're gonna wear
now I'm not on offense I can't do
anything about it but I'm gonna go over
here and talk to the guys who can and
we're in this together our journey to
get there has been too great to end like
this I mean we're here for a reason
there's something special about us being
here because we were not supposed to be
here and I went on it's at 17 14 fellows
will be the final score believe it and
it will happen one touchdown will work
will be world champion believe it and it
will happen and we won 17 to 14 and I
retired after that what I love about
stories like that from someone who has
built a career around hard work
discipline watching more tape putting in
more hours running the stairs more often
is that the lurking behind the believe
it in it will happen is psychological
principle for lack of a better word
right so it's what are the things that
you do on a regular basis from a routine
perspective to build that mindset to
know that you've put in the work that
you're able to execute and and
essentially not get in your own way you
know I think I think we doubt ourselves
more than anybody else every douses so
and I fight that - I fight that every
day especially you know with these new
jobs and businesses that I've never
thought that I would be in and never
knew I could be in I'm with the poster
or it could be any good at and I think
the thing their routines that I have my
mom routines are very simple I find out
what the job is and I bust my ass to get
it done and it's not the half the stuff
is not that complicated
for GMA I understand that I need to read
I need to read a lot I need to know what
I'm talking about
before I open my mouth and it's
something great about that because it's
challenged me in a way that I haven't
been challenged at live I didn't have to
do that live I could take two minutes to
read the questions that I'm gonna ask
the guests and then the rest of it was
personality driven so I could get away
with just you know being there just
being you know I guess joyful and
entertaining where Jim may require some
of that but it required for you to have
some knowledge on different things and
that's what I love about it it takes me
back to be honest with you the football
and we relates to football to me because
not growing up playing I was still
learning my 15th and final season right
I never got bored with the game and
that's how I feel about GMA I don't
think I'll ever get bored because every
day is so different and every day of the
challenge and so for me it's about just
studying and knowing what my job is and
knowing what my job description is and
know what I'm what I can bring to the
equation and the toughest thing you know
going to GMA for me was figuring that
out because you have Georgie and have
Robin yeah Amy of Lera and you have
people who have been established on the
show that has been established for a
long time and how does my personality
fit in so it's been like you know
running into wall here and there until
like to find okay I fit into that slot
now let me find the next one and it's a
work in progress on you know I work
every day you know the wheels are
spinning in my head of them sitting
there with the camera on my face and I'm
talking about how to be myself within a
situation that you usually don't have a
chance to inject personality into but
that's what they want and but it's been
it's been a challenge but it's been fun
it's been exciting and I wake up every
day and I love being there and I love
making the people around me happy that
I'm there that's important to me too
yeah that was really neat so going from
part-time to full-time you do the first
day and I remember one of the first
things they said to you I forget who
said it but she said you know we're all
looking forward to our morning kiss on
the cheek and she said it so warmly it
was like for a second she was not a
TV personality she was your friend and
she was super stoked that it was like
gonna be you know this like summer party
every day that you guys were gonna get a
be able to hang out and I thought wow
that's so cool that you're able to have
that and I'm a routine person I if I
take my wallet out of my pants at night
I know where I put it
yeah well I know it's there my god
where's my wallet out where my keys I'm
not that guy but I'm also a routine
person in terms of when I go to work
like good morning very simple words not
hard I'm joyful and happy to be there
I'm gonna be the same I'm gonna good
morning I talk to this everybody and I
certain people I know they're the
connection when you got it you know
good morning shake somebody hand you
give or you walk by and you give him a
tap on the shoulder like those things
are important because when I was a kid I
was washing dishes I was cutting grass
all right I was a mover and you were
unseen you were very unseen and
unappreciated and in some in some ways
talk to it if you weren't you know now I
think we weren't human but you just were
below at a level below and and that has
always bothered me and to this day it
bothers me to think about that because I
remember when that was happening and
thinking to myself you think this is
where I'm gonna be right this is just
what I gotta do now to get where I'm
going and I didn't necessarily know
where I was going but I knew it was not
going to be there and so it's very
important that when I walk in there's
one particular security guard who you
know I hate just every time you walk in
hinges and now it's a good morning how
you doing hey buddy have a good day
everything else and now when I walk in
hey Michael how you doing like it
totally changed I see it's he's happy
when I walk around at corner and just
because he feels valuable land and
that's so important to me because you
get so much more out of yourself and so
much more out of people because you're
in an environment you create it right
you created happiness because you want
to be happy you want to be around happy
people and sometimes it's you got a you
know you got to bang your head against
the wall to make it happen but you
to be consistent with it and you have to
be persistent with it and if you aren't
then people come around to that and then
people who can trust you because they
know what they're gonna get one of the
worse things is to be unpredictable in
terms of your emotion or the way that
you approach people hmm
because that makes people all you know I
don't know yeah that's never want to be
that guy I want to be together you know
what you're gonna get unless you were a
reporter when I was a player but you
know what you're gonna get and you know
what you're gonna get is gonna be
genuine I've got to be honest it's gonna
be real it's gonna be sincere and you're
gonna get everything I have to make this
work and and in some ways I'm a
perfectionist at work if I mess up one
word or not think of something I'll go I
don't watch myself on TV for that reason
half the time bothers me could say all
that was great I'll go damn I missed
that yeah I said no exactly and so going
back to what you're saying about
creating happiness which is incredibly
really really important concept that I
hope everybody is listening to once you
understand its creation once you
understand it's a neural chemistry once
you understand that that's something
that you can craft and control
everything in your life changes yeah
once you realize that that it's all a
construct right that you can shape it
then you realize that you're awake in
the matrix and that was the first thing
that you and I connected yeah but when
we first met and I don't even remember
why I brought it up I guess because I'm
so obsessed with X I bring it up to
everybody but I'm literally wearing this
shirt in your honor the matrix was the
doctor that was my movie man you said it
impacted your career God did it ever it
was weird that movie everybody watch did
they talk about how great it was and I'm
one of these guys you tell them how
great everything is it can't be that
good and I wait so I didn't see it until
it was on like one of these cable
channels and I'm watching it and that
point where he gets shot hmm
and you think he's dead and then she
believes in him as he kisses him and he
comes back and then the mister
Smith turns around an issue to the
McGinty go no yeah
stop whatever and they takes the bullet
and drive and he in enlarge Fishburne
goes he is the one he believed it
himself he didn't limit himself he
limited himself up into that point and I
used to think oh I get a sack oh I got a
sack okay oh that's good I don't know if
I get another sack oh man
get two or I don't know if I can get
three and that's why can't I get why say
one is enough what why am i limiting
myself and anything I do and I the
football player change me I set the sack
record that you're them I didn't have a
sack the first three games that season
so to get all those sacks within 13
games it's incredible
which I look back and go holy smoke but
it was I don't know I just would go
wouldn't go and I didn't say okay
Michael that's good enough it was like
okay Michael you got one go get to go
get another and go get another one and
that movie taught just truly that mom it
was like I see it now and I smiled
because it just makes me realize we
limit ourselves and why yes you hold
yourself back when there's no reason to
hold yourself back because there is no
reason as a friend of mine told me Mike
he said Michael there's no reason that a
black man with a gap tooth in his mouth
who can't say the letter S without
spitting on people should be on TV
talking for a living and he's 100 was it
right though I have proven that the
matrix works anything is possible
that's awesome that's your version of
you know stopping the bullets yeah like
that I was watching that clip today I'm
singing about you singing about the
matrix and I put that clip on where he
says are you telling me I can dodge
bullets no neo and you're ready you
won't have to ah like that dad well I
know what a nerd I am like I totally get
it
like I geek out to the [__] and the
funny thing is me two things you say
that it's like oh you're pretty oh yeah
as you were saying it me as well and the
funny thing is so people look at you and
they think it must come easy for him he
must not have a problem in social
situations you know all that's on the
football field ah he's just a big tough
guy
so yeah of course it's easy for him and
the thing that I love about the I don't
think that you can be on camera and not
create a persona right cuz you're gonna
have to project something so you're
asking yourself what am I going to
project but I love that you have clearly
made the demand that the thing you
project has to actually be you and so
you're so honest and for someone like me
who has spent so much time like am I the
only one who's afraid of [__] like what
is going on like I have to overcome this
all the time and so people always say to
me like oh you must be really relaxed in
front of the camera you see I'm like I
am literally like freaking out every
time before I think one of these shows
like the ten minutes leading up to it
thinking god am I gonna be able to pull
it off this time or is this the one I
imagine doing that every day yes that's
me every day it really is and the thing
is innately I'm a shy guy I'm still that
chubby kid bob-- with easy access to the
with easy access to my wallet and I'm
still that that shy kid so it's I do
what I do and I love what I do but the
second that is over and I'm like walking
down the street and people I'm I got
like a bucket it makes me want to curl
up like that thirteen-year-old kid again
and I don't know what it is when I play
football my first I played when I was
seven and eight years old and I was a
good player and I cried the entire game
when I tell you not just cry bawl like
snot snot bubble cries like nasty cries
and the coach would pull me out it was
wrong nothing it's because I would make
a tackle right make a play big plans the
clapping yeah my god and I just oh it
made me so uncomfortable and that's how
I get a little bit when I when I'm
off-camera and people come up because oh
you did this and you did that and it
makes me feel like yeah I don't know I
don't when football was over I kind of
you know I know what I did but I don't
pay attention I have a Super Bowl ring
and I pull it out if somebody asked me
to see it but other than that
I forget I have it I know I got it but I
forget physically the ring I know I won
that game and it's just weird I don't
hang on to stuff like that you know I
kind of like holding on to the past is
kind of keeping me from moving in one
day when I decide I don't want to go
forward anymore and I'm done career-wise
then I look back and I go okay maybe I'm
pretty good that's actually really
interesting and really powerful for me
because I feel exactly the same way now
I may have gotten lucky in this because
my memory is actually really bad your
memory hole my friend my friend I'm
telling you so and this is this is one
of the like right now you're doing that
thing that people do to you and you
[__] hate so how am I able to do this
because I work my ass off because I
understand that my memory is bad I think
everyone would think like footy with me
on and I'm knowing you I would think
your memory is fantastic so let's say I
want to remember 10 amazing facts I know
I only remember 10% so I'm now I got to
read a hundred [__] facts that's
literally my life like part of the
reason I read us voraciously as I do the
reason I take notes the reason I record
voice memos the reason that I go back
over this stuff is because that's what I
have to do to make it usable right so
for me it's all about usability like
what is this company it the aim of this
company the aim of this show is is
literally to get people out of the
matrix but you have to understand what
that means getting someone out of the
matrix is simply to get them to stop
saying I got one I guess I can't get to
second that's it
like once you do that you're out the
limit but you yes you have to I have
chosen my face just because this [__]
like yeah but I but a bit but but
everyone thinks it either everyone
thinks you're not scared if I tell you
or one thing you haven't had failures
that I've had plenty of failures but I
don't look at failure I've never looked
at a failure uh woe is me oh oh no I'm
just programs now I did work okay let's
go look harder figure something else up
going I'm not programmed to go I didn't
work out and let me contemplate and feel
sorry for myself and you know and go
over here and get sympathy I just I
don't know if it's way I was brought up
or if it's from the business of football
where is win or lose it's like success
or failure and if you lose the football
game I don't have time to think about
how I lost it and what I did wrong
because if I'm doing that then that the
guy I'm playing next week is getting
ahead of me so I got to worry about
what's coming up next and push for
what's next to get better for what's
next not getting better for what's in
the knot not worry about what I wasn't
good enough for in the past right and
I've done sitcom fail their business are
fail you know you bet you figure it out
life is about figuring it out life is
not going to be perfect and if you
expect it to be perfect you're fooling
yourself and a perfect life without a
challenge is not a perfect life with a
boring life boring you see the movie war
dogs oh the gun runner's yeah yeah yeah
I bit alright there's a great line in
there which they don't intend this way
but when you were talking it really hit
me they say the money is made between
the lines mm-hmm now in the movie
they're talking about something a little
bit different but when you were saying
like I fail and I think about okay
what's next how do I learn from this you
know what's the pivot how do I move or
you know reinvent yourself that's that's
the money like if people want to know
how you've had such astronomical success
in so many crazy different arenas it's
that when you said life is about
figuring it out I was like no one's
gonna write that down like people at
home and I'm putting a [__] pin in it
so people will write it down because
once they get that the magic of Michael
Strahan is that that you take the time
to assess and figure it out like you
were saying with GMA and watching you on
GMA has been so cool to see you really
changing from what you were doing on
live with Kelly and Michael like what
you were calling the it was personality
you know roll up and shine yeah and then
now this I see you and you've talked
about it you talk about in the book
about I wanted a challenge and I needed
to know am I am I saying no to this
because I'm scared because if that's it
that I'm going all in because fear is
something you don't overcome and figure
out
dude that's me like the juices working
please right yeah the juice is worth the
squeeze you read that book but I
definitely definitely I did more than
read that book I have notes upon notes
of that book it is really powerful thank
you that was blown away I'm so good well
you know I don't mission accomplished
Phil you know and I and I don't know man
I you talk about all accomplishments and
stuff but for me I really haven't done
any that much like I feel like I'm just
like starting I love that and I know
tell me if this is true the reason that
you feel like that is because you're
always looking forward you're not
looking back and you're always putting
yourself in a situation where you're a
little bit sucky and your goal is to
rapidly stop sucking at that but by the
time you're good at that you're already
looking at the next thing that you're a
little bit sucky at and the cycle
repeats right but that's how you
escalate so when you and I went and we
met your mutual friend or your friend
who what he does with Holmes is
unbelievable yeah it is it is on another
planet and you and I got in the car and
we're like there's levels to this [__]
it was it was bonkers but I felt in that
moment such a kindred spirit to you
because I did not look at that house and
go I can't have it I looked at that
house and thought what do I need to do
what's next what situation now do I have
to put myself in like what is that
construct and I think of that you know
going back to the matrix I think of that
in in sort of all aspects of my life
like what's that next thing and thinking
about what you're doing the partnership
that you have with JCPenney like how do
you have the guts to kick that off
fashion to like true entrepreneurship
it's no longer personality driven like
your stuff is gonna live and die yeah is
that that next phase for you well you
you and I are very similar that to that
I I don't look at something and think
it's unattainable I look and I go I got
to work a little harder that's something
I want or something I want to do and and
and JCPenney was the perfect
example that you know the collection
which is suits and eyes and everything
you need to look sharp like you know and
when I'm on GMA everything I wear their
Fox NFL Sunday everything I wear that
everything the guys on Fox NFL Sunday
where is is really my line yes
Wow and Troy Aikman and and Tony
Gonzalez so it's really something but
the reason it's authentic to me and I'm
involved so I'm just not a passive yeah
those fabrics you guys do it put a suit
out there stamp my name in it and it's
good oh I look at every swatch of fabric
I'll get every dresser every tie belts
shoes socks it's exhausting yeah but
it's necessary because I know people who
work really hard with me on that and I
want them to know that I'm as engaged as
they are and from the marketing of it to
who we're gonna pick the model and adds
the direction of that but for us we were
so happy because it was a start it was a
start and I think we started maybe 200
stores just to get a little feeler I
look back now and I think wow so only
been like a year hmm but we've been
successful enough that we were 500 and
then now we're going to 600 a year ahead
of schedule and then we kicked off MSX
which was like you know fleeces and
casual and like athleisure wear so we
kicked off a whole nother line with
their makig yeah yeah
athleisure it has just completely
evolved into this thing that is like hey
why not why can't we it's authentic to
me I don't do it not wear it I don't do
it you don't see me in it I'm in it
every day so I'd rather be authentic and
everything that I do and everything that
we do have the company with we do that
is authentic to whoever we are putting
into position including myself that
people could stand behind it because
they know that's really you and that's
important yeah there's so a lot of
entrepreneurs watch the show and there's
two things you said there that I think
are incredibly incredibly important for
entrepreneurs to understand and that's
one that you get one of them defining
characteristics of being an entrepreneur
is dealing with the mundane and if you
believe in what you're doing enough to
fight through the mundane like if you
look at this set if you knew what we had
to do like it is it is like one tedious
thing after another I I have on pieces
of this set there is actually my blood
because but that's just right that could
be a make it happen right so it's not
like wait why am i painting this it's
that's we have to do why am i looking at
this watch of fabric that's what you
have to do it's like you have the vision
you believe in it enough you're gonna
see it through all the way to the end
and when I was painting I thought this
is the part of being an entrepreneur
that people don't understand yeah like
this is not what they think they think
of it kind of like Fame all [__] your
boy I know we got to get you out of here
but your boy Kevin Hart so I'm assuming
you've seen laughs of my pain yes all
right so he has this quote which I just
I went to I would actually went to the
live concert that's inserted into that
film
he's phenomenal dude winds phenom so I
didn't know I knew him as a comedian
that was it at the beginning of the the
film version they do that chant
everybody wants to be famous nobody
wants to put the work in yeah everybody
wants to be famous nobody wants to put
the work in and I was like oh my god
Kevin Hart like totally understands it
so I was blown away and I was like that
guy's gonna last and then you mentioned
him in your book about being a guy who
puts the work in and I thought that's so
true they were two guys that
entertainment who I know put to work in
and I respect them so much it's Kevin
and and the Wayne Jonathan the rock yes
because I watched these two and I and I
study these two and their approach to
everything that they do and it's always
joyful it's always they have so much
energy and so much conviction about what
they're doing and belief and and and I'm
feeding off of them even though I'm a
totally different business because it
keeps me going to the point of where
they'll say man you know you work too
hard about you guys are working so I
think we all kind of feed off of each
other to push each other even though
we're all in like different spaces
sometimes to be successful unbe
to the other sometimes and I think that
that is you got to have role models you
have to have people that you look up to
that that make you push yourself and
make you want to be better and when it
comes to business and you tell my
painting on this set and doing all these
things if you do something and your name
is on it your name is right there if
it's not successful who's gonna get
blamed for it right you if it is
successful who's gonna get credit for it
you and I found that if I'm going to get
blamed for something that that's
happened before I didn't really put
everything into this I'm pissed that I'm
being blamed for something failing
because I didn't put all the work into
it right but yet for me if I'm getting
all the credit for being successful and
I know I didn't put anything into it I
feel like a fraud right and and you
gotta you gotta put up with that for
yourself and maybe some people
comfortable with that but there's not
comfortable with that so that's why all
the businesses I like to be a part of
because I don't I don't want to feel
like a fraud I want to find someone
asked me about it I want to talk to you
about it I'm real I don't have to make
up some story and then go home and go I
you know flash I had to lie about that
it's not a good feeling so if you're
gonna get blamed for failure accept it
hey I put all my I put everything I had
into it it failed move on to the next
but I know I busted my ass and if you
get into credit and everybody getting
credit for success you can feel good
because you truly have been a part of
that too and and that's something that
keeps me involved in everything and like
I said of the rock and Kevin are like
bust your ass bust your ass workers man
I appreciate that
and like you thank you alright one last
question what's the impact you want to
have on the world
yeah I don't know you know the biggest
thing for me to be honest with you is
just it's like my kids making them proud
letting letting them understand the
about hard work respect for not like not
now give me respect about how to respect
people and just be nice people
and and on ask that's really my main
focus is to you know make sure that when
I'm gone more people happy that I was
here and that they don't show up at the
funeral to make sure I'm really dead sit
thank you so much for thank you very
happy great time all right guys this is
somebody that you are gonna want to dive
into in a big way you're gonna want to
learn as much as you can you are
definitely gonna want to start by
reading his book wake up happy which is
the perfect title he talks about
happiness is not a test that you take
once and then it's done it's this
ongoing pursuit and the real way that he
talks about it from neuro chemistry to
all of the truths of the way that life
is going to knock you sideways and
you've got to find a way to recalibrate
and balance and he talks about all the
different steps and things that you can
do and take to actually find that path
to happiness and actually be somebody
who wakes up happy and somebody who
encounters a negative situation and has
the tools the things that he repeats in
his head the framework to view the world
that will actually help get you back on
track
it is super powerful you would love it
watch his induction into the Hall of
Fame speech it is him in a nutshell from
both the just joy of life to loving the
sound that another grown man makes when
you tackle him anyhow hear the breath
escaping his body it's hilarious you
have to hear it it's an amazing story
and guys you can join Michael on Sunday
February 5th as NFL on Fox covers Super
Bowl 51 live from Houston any time this
man is live I'm trying to be there see
it watch it because he does everything
with joy and authenticity and for those
of you who are about to write me and say
you never said what the other thing was
that he mentioned that's so powerful for
an entrepreneur and it's authenticity
and this guy has it from top to bottom
and everything that he does and I will
vouch for him on camera off camera it's
exactly the same person and that's so
[__] cool thank you so much for being
on the take my take
anybody guys until next time my friends
if you haven't already be sure to follow
at Tom bill you and at impact Theory
that's the new bad boy check it out join
us thank you guys so much and until next
time be legendary my friends take care
well done hey everybody thanks so much
for joining us for another episode of
impact Theory if this content is adding
value to your life our 1 ask is that you
go to iTunes and stitcher and rate
review not only does that help us build
this community which at the end of the
day is all we care about but it also
helps us get even more amazing guests on
here to show their knowledge with all of
us thank you guys so much for being a
part of this community and until next
time be legendary my friends
[Music]